doc changes for QIDO v2 in conformance (#2324)
microsoft/dicom-server: docs/resources/v2-conformance-statement.md

> # Version 2 DICOM Conformance Statement

Reviewer: Is our plan to delete the v1 conformance after we enable v2 for all? Or follow the mandatory 6 months until then we update both.

Author: I think preview is 6 months. Released versions have a different lifecycle. There is no huge cost to supporting both. We may have to wait for another release before we start to deprecate V1. I will learn more as I onboard to Azure Advisory

> > API version 2 is in **Preview** and should be used only for testing.

Reviewer 2: Does this mean that that version is `/v2.0-prerelease`?

Author: currently it is /v2/ behind a Feature flag. They need to turn on a config setting to use it.

      },
      "00081155":
      {
        "vr":"UI",
        "Value":["4a858cbb-a71f-4c01-b9b5-85f88b031365"]
      },
      "00081190":
      {
        "vr":"UR",
        "Value":["http://localhost/studies/d09e8215-e1e1-4c7a-8496-b4f6641ed232/series/8c4915f5-cc54-4e50-aa1f-9b06f6e58485/instances/4a858cbb-a71f-4c01-b9b5-85f88b031365"]
      }
    }]
  }
}
```

### Store Failure Reason Codes

| Code  | Description |
| :---- | :---------- |
| 272   | The store transaction did not store the instance because of a general failure in processing the operation. |
| 43264 | The DICOM instance failed the validation. |
| 43265 | The provided instance StudyInstanceUID did not match the specified StudyInstanceUID in the store request. |
| 45070 | A DICOM instance with the same StudyInstanceUID, SeriesInstanceUID and SopInstanceUID has already been stored. If you wish to update the contents, delete this instance first. |
| 45071 | A DICOM instance is being created by another process, or the previous attempt to create has failed and the cleanup process has not had chance to clean up yet. Please delete the instance first before attempting to create again. |

> | 45063 | A DICOM instance Data Set does not match SOP Class. The Studies Store Transaction (Section 10.5) observed that the Data Set did not match the constraints of the SOP Class during storage of the instance. |

Reviewer 2: Looks like this was moved from warnings to failure reasons, is that correct?

Author: No, I did not.

Author: Thanks for the feedback Esma, I am looking at this PR as incremental change targeting the change I made to V2 QIDO only. Rest needs to be tracked separately

| Exact Match | All supported attributes | {attributeID}={value1} |
| Fuzzy Match | PatientName, ReferringPhysicianName | Matches any component of the name which starts with the value. |

#### Attribute ID

Tags can be encoded in a number of ways for the query parameter. We have partially implemented the standard as defined in [PS3.18 6.7.1.1.1](http://dicom.nema.org/medical/dicom/2019a/output/chtml/part18/sect_6.7.html#sect_6.7.1.1.1). The following encodings for a tag are supported:

| Value            | Example          |
| :--------------- | :--------------- |
| {group}{element} | 0020000D         |
| {dicomKeyword}   | StudyInstanceUID |

Example query searching for instances:
`../instances?Modality=CT&00280011=512&includefield=00280010&limit=5&offset=0`

### Search Response

The response will be an array of DICOM datasets. Depending on the resource, by *default* the following attributes are returned:

> #### Default Study tags

Reviewer 2: Were there intentional changes here?  This table is much smaller than the [published V1](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/healthcare-apis/dicom/dicom-services-conformance-statement#default-study-tags) - I noted these are missing:

| Tag          | Attribute Name |
| :----------- | :------------- |
| (0008, 0005) | `SpecificCharacterSet` |
| (0008, 0030) | `StudyTime` |
| (0008, 0056) | `InstanceAvailability` |
| (0008, 0201) | `TimezoneOffsetFromUTC` |
| (0010, 0040) | `PatientSex` |
| (0020, 0010) | `StudyID` |

And this appears to be new in V2 (or missing in V1)

| Tag          | Attribute Name |
| :----------- | :------------- |
| (0008, 1030) | StudyDescription |

Author: Yes, reduce the default. Sorry, there was a Code change PR with more details and since this was a follow up did not put a lot in description. Will keep this in mind next time

| Tag          | Attribute Name |
| :----------- | :------------- |
| (0008, 0020) | StudyDate |
| (0008, 0050) | AccessionNumber |
| (0008, 1030) | StudyDescription |
| (0009, 0090) | ReferringPhysicianName |
| (0010, 0010) | PatientName |
| (0010, 0020) | PatientID |
| (0010, 0030) | PatientBirthDate |
| (0020, 000D) | StudyInstanceUID |

> #### Default Series tags

Reviewer 2: Looks like changes here

Author: yes

| Tag          | Attribute Name |
| :----------- | :------------- |
| (0008, 0060) | Modality |
| (0008, 1090) | ManufacturerModelName |
| (0020, 000E) | SeriesInstanceUID |
| (0040, 0244) | PerformedProcedureStepStartDate |

> #### Default Instance tags

Reviewer 2: Another with changes

Author: yes

| Tag          | Attribute Name |
| :----------- | :------------- |
| (0008, 0018) | SOPInstanceUID |

If `includefield=all`, below attributes are included along with default attributes. Along with default attributes, this is the full list of attributes supported at each resource level.

> #### Additional Study tags

Reviewer 2: Above missing items appear to be moved here, which tells me that this was likely intentional, not an omission.  Is that right?

| Tag          | Attribute Name |
| :----------- | :------------- |
| (0008, 0005) | SpecificCharacterSet |
| (0008, 0030) | StudyTime |
| (0008, 0056) | InstanceAvailability |
| (0008, 0201) | TimezoneOffsetFromUTC |
| (0008, 0063) | AnatomicRegionsInStudyCodeSequence |
| (0008, 1032) | ProcedureCodeSequence |
| (0008, 1060) | NameOfPhysiciansReadingStudy |
| (0008, 1080) | AdmittingDiagnosesDescription |
| (0008, 1110) | ReferencedStudySequence |
| (0010, 1010) | PatientAge |
| (0010, 1020) | PatientSize |
| (0010, 1030) | PatientWeight |
| (0010, 2180) | Occupation |
| (0010, 21B0) | AdditionalPatientHistory |
| (0010, 0040) | PatientSex |
| (0020, 0010) | StudyID |

#### Additional Series tags

| Tag          | Attribute Name |
| :----------- | :------------- |
| (0008, 0005) | SpecificCharacterSet |
| (0008, 0201) | TimezoneOffsetFromUTC |
| (0020, 0011) | SeriesNumber |
| (0020, 0060) | Laterality |
| (0008, 0021) | SeriesDate |
| (0008, 0031) | SeriesTime |

> | (0008, 103E) | SeriesDescription |

Reviewer 2: How do we decide what is in the default vs. additional tags?  For example, we include `StudyDescription` in the study by default, but `SeriesDescription` is not included with the series.

Author: Things we index by defaults stayed in as defaults

| 403 (Forbidden)           | The user isn't authorized. |
| 503 (Service Unavailable) | The service is unavailable or busy. Please try again later. |

### Additional Notes

- Querying using the `TimezoneOffsetFromUTC` (`00080201`) is not supported.
- The query API will not return 413 (request entity too large). If the requested query response limit is outside of the acceptable range, a bad request will be returned. Anything requested within the acceptable range, will be resolved.
- When target resource is Study/Series there is a potential for inconsistent study/series level metadata across multiple instances. For example, two instances could have different patientName. In this case latest will win and you can search only on the latest data.
- Paged results are optimized to return matched *newest* instance first, this may result in duplicate records in subsequent pages if newer data matching the query was added.
- Matching is case in-sensitive and accent in-sensitive for PN VR types.
- Matching is case in-sensitive and accent sensitive for other string VR types.
- Only the first value will be indexed of a single valued data element that incorrectly has multiple values.

> - For best performance default attributes or limited number of responses is recommended.

Reviewer 2: I suggest a slight re-wording for clarity:

```suggestion
- Using the default attributes or limiting the number of additional attributes requested will maximize performance.
```

| :--------------------------- | :---------- |
| 204 (No Content)             | When all the SOP instances have been deleted. |
| 400 (Bad Request)            | The request was badly formatted. |
| 401 (Unauthorized)           | The client is not authenticated. |
| 401 (Unauthorized)           | The client isn't authenticated. |
| 403 (Forbidden)              | The user isn't authorized. |
| 404 (Not Found)              | When the specified series was not found within a study, or the specified instance was not found within the series. |
| 503 (Service Unavailable)    | The service is unavailable or busy. Please try again later. |

### Delete Response Payload

The response body will be empty. The status code is the only useful information returned.

# Worklist Service (UPS-RS)

The DICOM service supports the Push and Pull SOPs of the [Worklist Service (UPS-RS)](https://dicom.nema.org/medical/dicom/current/output/html/part18.html#chapter_11). This service provides access to one Worklist containing Workitems, each of which represents a Unified Procedure Step (UPS).

Throughout, the variable `{workitem}` in a URI template stands for a Workitem UID.

> 

Reviewer 2: There is an entire table missing here - Available UPS-RS endpoints.  See https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/healthcare-apis/dicom/dicom-services-conformance-statement#worklist-service-ups-rs

Author: hmm. I did not remove UPS-RS. Since I created a new file, it is hard to see the diff. Best way is to download the file and compare with your local conformance file.

I see the diff in only in default reduction and adding them to All response.

But your assumption is right, we are reducing the default to make it more performant.
